chore: add CLAUDE.md for Claude Code development guidance (#269)
tinyspeck/sleuth: CLAUDE.md

# CLAUDE.md

> This file provides guidance to Claude Code (claude.ai/code) when working with code in this repository.

Reviewer: I wouldn't leave this in your CLAUDE.md file, rather everything in this file should be addressed to Claude.

E.g.

```
This document helps Claude understand the Sleuth repo structure and common development patterns.
```

## Project Overview

Sleuth is an Electron-based Slack Log Viewer application built with React, TypeScript, and MobX for state management. It processes various types of log files (browser, webapp, mobile, installer, etc.) and provides a comprehensive UI for viewing, filtering, and analyzing log data.

## Development Commands

> **Always use yarn instead of npm** - this project enforces yarn usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Never attempt to run `npm`, instead always run the equivalent `yarn` command
```

"IMPORTANT:" is some magic to make claude pay more attention, bold doesn't have the same effect in aggregate

### Core Commands
- `yarn install` - Install dependencies
- `yarn start` - Start development build with Electron
- `yarn test` - Run tests with Vitest
- `yarn run tsc` - TypeScript type checking
- `yarn run lint` - Run linting (includes TypeScript check, ESLint, and Prettier)
- `yarn run lint:fix` - Fix linting issues automatically

> ### Build Commands

Reviewer: I'd add a note here that claude should avoid running these commands as they are slow, instead prefer running  `test`, `tsc` or `lint` to validate changes rapidly. Other you might find claude running `yarn package` after every file edit in rare cases.

- **SleuthAPI** (preload): Exposed renderer API with type safety

### Specialized Features
- **Trace Analysis**: Chrome DevTools and Perfetto trace file support
- **State Inspection**: Redux state visualization
- **NetLog Viewing**: Network log analysis
- **Bookmarking**: Save and restore specific log entries
- **Log Merging**: Combine multiple log files chronologically

## Testing

- Uses Vitest with jsdom environment
- Test files: `test/**/*.test.[jt]s?(x)`
- Setup: `test/vitest-setup.js`
- Global test utilities available

## Code Conventions

### ESLint Rules
- Strict separation: renderer code cannot import Node.js modules (fs, path, etc.)
- Use `@typescript-eslint` for TypeScript-specific rules
- Unused vars prefixed with `_` are ignored

### File Organization
- `src/main/`: Main process Electron code
- `src/renderer/`: React renderer code
- `src/preload/`: Preload script for secure IPC
- `src/utils/`: Shared utilities (renderer-safe only)
- `src/interfaces.ts`: Shared TypeScript interfaces

### State Patterns
- Use MobX `@observable` and `@action` decorators
- State mutations only through actions
- Computed values for derived data
- Autorun for side effects

> ## Development Notes

Reviewer: Two easy notes that are pretty generically helpful:

```
IMPORTANT: never disable a lint rule or add @ts-ignore unless explicitly asked to do so by the user.
If you are unable to solve a problem without disabling a lint rule, stop and ask the user for
guidance first.

**CRITICAL: NEVER use --no-verify flag with git commands.** This bypasses pre-commit hooks that enforce code quality and can introduce broken code into the repository. Always fix the underlying issues that cause hooks to fail instead of bypassing them. If a hook is failing, address the specific linting, formatting, or test failures it identifies.
```

## Project Overview

Sleuth is an Electron-based Slack Log Viewer application built with React, TypeScript, and MobX for state management. It processes various types of log files (browser, webapp, mobile, installer, etc.) and provides a comprehensive UI for viewing, filtering, and analyzing log data.

## Development Commands

IMPORTANT: Never attempt to run `npm`, instead always run the equivalent `yarn` command

### Core Commands

- `yarn install` - Install dependencies
- `yarn start` - Start development build with Electron
- `yarn test` - Run tests with Vitest
- `yarn run tsc` - TypeScript type checking
- `yarn run lint` - Run linting (includes TypeScript check, ESLint, and Prettier)
- `yarn run lint:fix` - Fix linting issues automatically

### Build Commands

note that you (Claude) should avoid running these commands as they are slow, instead prefer running test, tsc or lint to validate changes rapidly.

- `yarn run package` - Package the app for current platform
- `yarn run make` - Create distributable for current platform
- `yarn run publish` - Publish to configured distributors

### Utility Commands

> - `yarn run catapult:update` - Update catapult submodule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `yarn run catapult:update` - Update the catapult git submodule
```
